It was a dissertation by a fellow who had passed
away, and his wife had sent it to us and asked us if we
were interested in publishing it. He had worked
with the Corps of Engineers for many years, and it
was on the subject of the
development of the mouth of the Mississippi
River, the channelization of the Mississippi,
and opening it up to heavy ship traffic. And that
was the dissertation, but it was absolutely, it
was like reading a finished book. It wasn't like a
dissertation at all. It didn't have the usual
dissertation ease and the view of literature and
notes to every phrase, extremely well written,
and I wanted to publish that. And I was in the middle
of negotiations with the man's wife and had told
her that we would like to publish it. And she wrote
to me and said that the Corps of Engineers had
gotten in touch with her and they wanted to publish
it. And so they did. We missed out on that. I think
that would have been a really good book, and I think
it would have led us into doing some stuff in
history of technology and southern history, too,
that we didn't get into until much more recently.
How does an editor attract manuscripts?
You attract manuscripts by publishing good
books. You find manuscripts by getting out there
and talking to people, going to meetings, talking
to people on the phone, just talking to people
about their students and who's doing good work and
about their colleagues and finding out who's got
the manuscripts. And then you make the contact
with them and ask them if they haven't written a
manuscript yet, if they would consider writing
one. If they do have the manuscript, have they
presented it to someone else? And if not, could you
see a proposal on it? Give an example of one that you
recall where that worked, where you did that. Oh,
that's the standard practice. Practically every
manuscript we get is now something that we either
have attracted through our previous
publications or that we've gone out and
contacted the author and asked that the author let
us have a look at it. I do that pretty often in the
Eastern European series. Stepan Nestrovich is
the series editor, and he and I often contact
people whose work we've heard about and ask them if
they will
provide us with the prospectus. I've just begun
what we call the Centennial of Flight series. And
Roger Lanius, the chief historian at NASA, is the
general editor of that series. And he and I have
actually asked people to contribute books to the
series. And these are people who have done other
writing in the history of aviation and
aeronautics. And so we don't even have a
manuscript on that in that series yet, but we have
15 books lined up for it. Everything from the
man's, humanity's visions and imaginations
about flight long before flight was possible,
through the light or the air period into the early
years of aviation and right on up to the space age.
And I'm hoping that whoever takes my place here
will continue that series and working with Roger.
And maybe there'll be 20 or 25 books in the series
before it's really closed out in about 2004 or 5.
But we have about 15 titles lined up for it now.
Let's see, I'm now kind of going, heading
downhill. As you look back over these years, to
which colleagues are you most grateful here on
staff? Oh, they're all a wonderful team.
I'm really grateful to Gayla Christensen, our
marketing manager, because she's been my model
for marketing practices and good marketing. I've
learned a tremendous amount from her over the
years. I
was really grateful to Tom Rotell, because I
learned a lot of business practices from him. and
learn from him that a university press can be run
efficiently business-wise and still be a
university press, still publish good scholarly
work, but university press doesn't have to lose
money on every book it publishes to retain its
reputation. And in fact, the books that sell well
are often the books that give you a good
reputation.
Just everybody on the staff, they've all been
wonderful to work with. Chris and I have been here
25 years, and all our friends are here. We know some
people in Lubbock, but it's going to be quite
different. Did you, by chance, know Bill Shearer?
Yes, I did. Describe Bill Shearer for people who
might not know you. Well, Bill Shearer was our
second sales rep, and he used to travel Texas
visiting all the bookstores and selling the
press's books in Texas. Bill was an Aggie, and he
was probably the most literate Aggie I ever met. He
read everything he could get his hands on. He found
time to read when, you know, I often wish that I had
time to read books, just to sit down with a good book
and enjoy it. Well, Bill found that time. He made
that time. That time was part of his life. And I just
have never lived books like Bill did. And so he
worked for us for, I forget how long it was, five or
six years. And one day, I was riding with him on a
trip, and I said, where do you want to go? What do you
plan to do in this business? And he said, I'm going
to start my own publishing house. And sure enough,
a few days later, he came in dressed in a suit. You
didn't see Bill in a suit very often. But I said, why
are you all dressed up? And he says, I'm going to the
bank. I'm going to talk to them about financing me
my publishing business. And he got the loan. He
also got support from, oh,
jeez, my memory is going.
fellow in a printer in Austin who had done a lot of
work for the press, had done a lot of our printing,
especially our big color books. Hart, Bill Hart
was the name. And Bill Hart had acquired the rights
to Shoal Creek Publishing, which was a little
fine, high-quality publishing house at Texana.
And so Bill Hart told Bill Shearer that he would
contribute to Bill's business and become a
partner if Bill would take these Shoal Creek books
and distribute them and sell them. So Bill did
that, and then he started his own publication
program and moved to Fredericksburg after a
couple of years here. And Shearer Publishing was
one of the one of the top Texas literature Texana
publishers in the state for several years for the
good work that Bill had done. He was in an old beer
hall and dance hall in Fredericksburg. I guess
their offices are still there. I haven't been over
there in some time. I think so. But his wife Kathy
now runs the business. Bill passed away a few years
back, and it was a tremendous loss. He was a great
publisher and he was just an all-around great guy.
Let's see, other people that, are there any
non-A&M employees, perhaps former students,
that you think have been important to the press? Oh
yeah, Joe and Betty Moore, John Lindsay,
the more recently,
John
and C.C. Keck down in Laredo. K-E-C-K. Yes. John
Keck and
we have a series name for them, and I can't even
think of the name now. I'm getting close to
retirement, I guess. What is the common factor in
those folks? What causes them to be? Well, they
love books. They love publishing. I know John
Lindsay's case, he was just so excited that his
university could have its own publishing
operation. I was going to say, is the fact that
there's some ruinousness, does that help? Oh,
yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's very true that Aggies
support their university better than alumni
anywhere else in the world. And they are the Moores
and the Lindseys and the Kecks and
the other people whose name I can't recall. I'm
embarrassed to say. have all been real
supportive. And then a lot of other people, too,
just people like John Adams. We're publishing his
third book. He's written The History of the Corps
of Cadets, and we'll be publishing that. Adams has
done a lot of good work with the press, and he's
never asked for anything special, no special
consideration.
wants Texas A&M University Press to publish these
things. What advice as you, now I'm placing you,
you're the consultant, what advice would you give
to the Texas A&M Press now?
Keep up what it's been doing for the last six years.
What does that mean? Keep publishing the kinds of
books that it's been publishing and keep its eye on
the bottom line the way it has been doing. I think
the press could be a little more adventurous in
some areas that it has funding in. Such as? Well,
like in the revolving funds, use of those.
But I think overall the balance is real good right
now between the funded books and the unfunded
ones, between the trade books and the scholarly
books. And I think it's a good opportunity now. If
the press sticks to its knitting and does what it
has experience of doing, that we can see some
growth from it. in coming years and it can move on up
into the from 20th to 25th on up into the teens and
maybe even higher in the ranking. I think Charles
has plans to
move right on up with the university and make the
press expand and grow. right along with the
university. Are there any new subject areas that
would be worthy for A&M to consider and impress?
Well, we're trying to get a series in agriculture
started. We have three books on that. Is that a
good? That's starting, yeah. That's a good
venture. That's a good prospect. I think the only
other one that
should be considered right now and I think Charles
is considering it, but I would recommend that he be
very careful about it, is veterinary medicine.
Because there's a lot of commercial competition
there. But the right kinds of books, I think, this
press could do in vet medicine or associated
topics. But other than that, I think the press
ought to hold on developing any new fields for a
while. And the number of titles projected now per
year? It's about 50 to 55, but it's going on up from
there. Do you think that's a worthy goal? Yeah, if
the administration is willing to support the
university and support the press and
help with the cost of that growth, we're going to
The press is going to need a new warehouse if it
expands its list much more. It's going to need new
staff and production and every other department.
And more space. And more space for the offices,
yeah. We have room in the field out back for more
warehouse, but I'm not sure how this building
could be expanded for offices. We might have to
move part of our operation to another building.
Other presses do that. It's OK, but it's just not
the same. Of what are you, as you look back, of what
are you most proud of your 25 years here? Well, I'm
most proud, I think, of keeping a lot of the
traditions
of the press, the things that we published in the
past, keeping them alive, keeping our Texas
history publishing live and on track, and getting
our military history series started and going
strong, and getting the Eastern European series
started, getting this new Centennial of Flight
series started, and being here and overseeing the
other new areas that we've gotten into,
presidential studies, although that, you know,
with Mary Lynn's working directly with the Bush
School people. That was such a natural topic for
us. It could hardly have been avoided. But those
things are the kinds of things I think I'm proudest
of having been a part of here.
All right. Just about next to the last question.
Let's make believe someone walked up to you and
handed you a million-dollar check with one
stipulation. You must pass it on to Texas A&M, but
you can decide. I couldn't ask them if I could take
it with me today. No, no. You could decide what A&M
would do with it. If you had a million dollars to
give Texas A&M, what would you ask them to use it
for? Well, of course I'd give it to the press. To do
what? To endow publication. In what? In whatever
the press wanted to publish. You mean you wouldn't
specify? I wouldn't specify. I would rely on the
editors and the director to make that decision. As
you drive away to a school whose colors are red and
black, how easy will it be for the maroonness in
your system to fade away? Well, as I said, 25 years
here, we put down some pretty deep roots. All our
friends are here. We have acquaintances. and a few
friends in Lubbock, but we're going to be leaving a
lot here. And so the strings are going to be
attached. They're going to be long strings,
428-mile long strings, but they'll still be
attached. And I'm going to be keeping in touch with
people here, and they with me, I know. So
I'll have to root for them. Red Raiders at the
football games, but there'll always be a little
bit of maroon in there. I may have to cover it up with
red and black, but it'll be there.